In this video we're going to be
using the merge tool, but first
of all, let's just clean up our
layers list so we can remove the
spawning grounds layer that
isn't clipped.
So we'll click on this, right
click and click remove layer and
we can also toggle off the
territorial sea layer as we
don't need this at the moment.
And so in this video we're going
to be merging the MPA no Take
layer with the spawning clips
layer.
And this is because the purple
Polygon we can see for the MPA
no take is the current no Take
zone that's around Tristina
Island.
The clipped spawning grounds we
want to create as a no take zone
during the spawning seasons and
so we want to merge these layers
so that we can create a map that
shows the no take zones for the
spawning seasons.
Just a note to make here, the
merge tool is similar to the
union tool, but there are some
differences.
So both tools will merge the
features of two layers together,
but the Union tool creates a new
features for where the polygons
overlap.
We're not interested in where
the polygons overlap as we just
want to merge this all into one,
no take zone.
And so Merge is the tool that we
want to use in this video.
So let's go into the processing
toolbox and search Merge, and
the tool that we want is Merge
Vector Layers.
So we're going to click on this,
and this tool is fairly easy to
run.
We just need to choose what
layers we're merging together in
this Input Layers section here.
So let's click on the three
little dots button next to this
section and here we can toggle
on which layers we want to merge
together.
And so that's the MPA no take
layer and the spawning clipped
layer and then we'll click OK
and now in the Input layer
section we can see we have two
layers selected for the
Coordinate reference system
destination.
All of our data layers and our
map are in the UTM zone 21 N.
And so if we click on this drop
down arrow here, we can see
that's the first option that
comes up.
And so we can just click on that
here.
And now under merge, this is
where we choose where to save
the new layer that's going to be
created into.
So we'll click on the three
little dots next to this and
choose save to Geopackage.
And now navigate to your project
folder and find the Geopackage
that we created in the last
video.
So we'll go into this and now we
can choose the name of the layer
that we're creating.
So we can name it No Take
Spawning Season and click OK and
then run the tool.
So once it's run we can shut the
window and let's turn off the
layers that we merged so the MPA
no take zone and the spawning
clipped.
And now we can look just at the
new merged layer and so we can
see that the merge tool has
merged the spawning grounds with
the current no take MPA zone.
So let's have a look at the
attribute table of our merged
layer.
So we'll right click and open up
the attribute table, and we can
see that there's four rows in
this table representing the four
different polygons.
So we can highlight each row to
see that the layer has the four
polygons inside, and so that's
how to run the merge tool in
QGIS.
So just remember to hit save to
save your progress.